Add Roster Import from LMS support guide (#2201)
education/classroom: docs/import-roster-from-lms.md

## Importing a course roster from your Learning Management System

GitHub Classroom is able to automatically import your course roster from your institution's Learning Management

> System, potentially saving you time and headaches when provisioning a new GitHub Classroom course!

Author: That makes sense to me

### Prerequisites

> This guide assumes that you've successfully [connected GitHub Classroom to you Learning Management System](/help/connect-to-lms). If you haven't, please follow those setup instructions before proceeding to the next steps.

Author: I've literally never written support docs of any kind before, and truly all of this information is fascinating. Thanks!

Importing a course roster from your Learning Management System will only work if you have you have enabled GitHub Classroom to receive course roster information per the privacy settings within your Learning Management System.

### Creating a new course roster

> To import a new course roster from your Learning Management, select the classroom you would like to import into. Then proceed through the following steps:

Reviewer: I'm going to suggest reworking the introduction here and initial steps here. If you need the reader to take some action, it may as well be a numbered step. Kinda like this:

> To import a course roster from your learning management system:
> 
> 1. [Sign in to GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/login).
> 2. [step(s) here to click the course and get to the right settings page]

I have some more tips that apply to this whole section below and the syncing section

   <div class="d-flex flex-justify-around">
     <img src="/images/help/lms/roster-import/import-roster.gif" class="border" style="width: 75%;">
   </div>

1. Navigate to classroom settings within GitHub Classroom

> 2. Select "Roster Management" from the sidebar

Reviewer: (for this whole section)

You can use formatting to make commands like this more reliable for skimming. Use _italics_ to show incidental UI text ("The _Foo settings_ page appears."); use **bold** text to indicate things you click or do other actions on ("Select **Roster management**.").

If you haven't already checked, make sure the UI text you write down is the same as appears in the UI, capitalization and all.

> 3. On the "Add students" page which pops up, click "Import from your Learning Management System"

Reviewer: A general tip for writing step-by-step instructions: I follow a mnemonic CAR—context, action, result—for writing individual steps. For example: 

> In the _Whatsit_ window, select the **Activate** button. A _Whosit_ appears.

Sometimes the context or action is omitted, if it's especially obvious or routine. For example, if a UI widget is large and prominent, you don't have to say "In the middle of the window". Likewise, you don't need to say what the result is for an obvious task, like entering some information in a text field or clicking a _Back_ button.

For this item in particular, the first bit ("The _Add students page_ loads.") is a result that goes with the previous step.

4. Select how you would like to identify the imported students by:

    - **User ID**: The Student ID as stored in your institution's Learning Management System
    - **Names**: Student full names
    - **Emails**: Student emails

>     _Note:_ If you do not see the kind of identifier you want, you may have to enable GitHub Classroom to receive student name and email information per your Learning Management System's privacy settings. See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) for more advice.

Reviewer: A little bit of formatting consistency here with notes on other pages.

Also "per", in the sense of "by means of" or "in accordance with", is rarely a good idea (at worst, it's ambiguous; at best, it sounds like stuffy business speak). In this case we can use the ordinary preposition "in". (It's OK to use "per" in the sense of "for each" like "once per day".)

```suggestion
    **Note**: If you do not see the kind of identifier you want, you may have to enable GitHub Classroom to receive student name and email information in your learning management system's privacy settings. See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) for more advice.
```

    {: class="note"}

> 5. That's it! You should now have your roster imported into GitHub Classroom.

Reviewer: This can be the conclusion text rather than a step (there's no action here, so no need to number the step, unless we're doing a joke "There is no step 5" sort of thing)

```suggestion
You have imported your roster into GitHub Classroom.
```

>     _Note:_ If you encounter any errors, check to ensure you have enabled the roster membership service from within your Learning Management System. See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) for more advice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note**: If you encounter any errors, check to ensure you have enabled the roster membership service from within your Learning Management System. See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) for more advice.
```

    {: class="note"}

### Syncing an existing course roster

> Once you've created a course roster imported from you Learning Management System, keeping it up to date is easy!

Reviewer: * _Easy_ and _simple_ (and _just_ and a few others) are risky words in docs. It might true in absolute terms, but it's the sort of thing that might not _feel_ true, in the reader's context (e.g., doing work while traveling, on a lousy hotel's flaky wifi—nothing's easy in that scenario). It's sometimes OK to make comparisons (_X is easier than Y_), but often avoiding such words entirely is more succinct and to the point.

```suggestion
After you've imported a roster, keep it up to date by syncing:
```

   </div>

1. Navigate to classroom settings within GitHub Classroom.

2. Select "Roster Management" on the sidebar

3. In the existing roster view, click "Sync from your Learning Management System" in
   the top right corner

4. Select how you would like to identify the imported students by:

    - **User ID**: The Student ID as stored in your institution's Learning Management System
    - **Names**: Student full names
    - **Emails**: Student emails

    _Note:_ If you do not see the kind of identifier you want, you may have to enable GitHub Classroom to receive student name and email information per your Learning Management System's privacy settings. See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) for more advice.
    {: class="note"}

5. That's it! Your roster should now be up to date with the latest course information from your Learning Management System.

    _Note:_ If you encounter any errors, check to ensure you have enabled the roster membership service from within your Learning Management System. See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) for more advice.
    {: class="note"}

### Troubleshooting

#### Unable to import students by Name or Email

> Lorem ipsum

Reviewer: I'd recommend waiting to merge until these are written, or dropping the placeholder sections entirely (placeholder text in shipped docs is… embarrassing—I have stories 😳)

Author: 😅 Thanks for noticing, I mainly put these here as a concrete reminder to actually get them done by release. I'll have them ready for the second round of review!

## Importing a course roster from your Learning Management System

GitHub Classroom can automatically import your course roster from your institution's learning management
system to save you time when creating a GitHub Classroom course.

### Prerequisites

If you haven't yet, [connect GitHub Classroom to you learning management system](/help/connect-to-lms) before proceeding.

Importing a course roster from your learning management system will only work if your learning management system's privacy settings allow GitHub Classroom to receive course roster information.

### Creating a new course roster

To import a new course roster from your learning management system:

   <div class="d-flex flex-justify-around">
     <img src="/images/help/lms/roster-import/import-roster.gif" class="border" style="width: 75%;">
   </div>

1. [Sign in to GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/login).

2. Select the classroom you wish to import your roster into.

> 3. Navigate to _Classroom Settings_ within GitHub Classroom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Navigate to _Classroom Settings_ within GitHub Classroom.
```

> 4. In the _sidebar_, select **Roster Management**. A page named _Add Students_ appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the sidebar, select **Roster Management**. The _Add Students_ page appears.
```

> 5. Click **Import from your Learning Management System**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click **Import from your Learning Management System**.
```

> 6. Select how you would like to identify the imported students by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Select how to identify the imported students:
```

    - **User ID**: The Student ID as stored in your institution's learning management system
    - **Names**: Student full names
    - **Emails**: Student emails

    **Note**: If you do not see the kind of identifier you want, you may have to enable GitHub Classroom to receive student name and email information in your learning management system's privacy settings. See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) for more advice.
    {: class="note"}

You have imported your roster into GitHub Classroom.

  **Note**: If you encounter any errors, check to ensure you have enabled the roster membership service from within your learning management system. See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) for more advice.
  {: class="note"}

### Syncing an existing course roster

After you've imported a roster, keep it up to date by syncing:

   <div class="d-flex flex-justify-around">
     <img src="/images/help/lms/roster-import/sync-roster.gif" class="border" style="width: 75%;">
   </div>

1. [Sign in to GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/login).

2. Select the classroom you wish to import your roster into.

3. Navigate to _Classroom Settings_ within GitHub Classroom.

> 4. In the _sidebar_, select **Roster Management**. You will be directed to your existing course roster.

Reviewer: A little tense thing to watch out for here: understandably, we think of it in the future tense—the reader will do all these things—but the reader experiences it in the present tense

```suggestion
4. In the sidebar, select **Roster Management**. You are directed to your existing course roster.
```

5. Click **Sync from your Learning Management System**.

> 6. Select how you would like to identify the imported students by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Select how to identify the imported students:
```

    - **User ID**: The Student ID as stored in your institution's learning management system
    - **Names**: Student full names
    - **Emails**: Student emails

    **Note:** If you do not see the kind of identifier you want, you may have to enable GitHub Classroom to receive student name and email information per your learning management system's privacy settings. See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) for more advice.
    {: class="note"}

Your roster is now up to date with your Learning Managment System.

  **Note:** If you encounter any errors, check to ensure you have enabled the roster membership service from within your learning management system. See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) for more advice.
  {: class="note"}

### Troubleshooting

> #### Unable to import students by Name or Email

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Unable to import students by name or email
```

If you're trying to import students by their full name or email but only
able to import by User ID, ensure you've enabled GitHub Classroom to retrieve
student information from your learning management system. You may be able to

> change the privacy settings for GitHub Classroom within your Learning Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
change the privacy settings for GitHub Classroom within your learning management
```

> System by inspecting the configuration settings by inspecting the settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
system by checking the configuration
```

> you configured when [connecting GitHub Classroom to you learning management system](/help/connect-to-lms).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you set when [connecting GitHub Classroom to you learning management system](/help/connect-to-lms).
```

#### Roster import service is not enabled
If GitHub Classroom notifies you that it is unable to import students because
it does not have access to the course roster on your learning management system,
ensure you've configured GitHub to retrieve course membersip infromation from
your learning management system. You may be able to change the privacy settings for

> GitHub Classroom within your Learning Management System by inspecting the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub Classroom within your learning management system by inspecting the
```

> settings you configured when [connecting GitHub Classroom to you learning management system](/help/connect-to-lms).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration you set when [connecting GitHub Classroom to you learning management system](/help/connect-to-lms).
```
